Revise SDL-0293 Enable OEM exclusive apps support (#1067)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter.md

### Handling Proprietary app registrations

In the current implementation of SDL, vehicle information is shared with the `RegisterAppInterface` response. If there are any apps that work with specific OEMs, they would need to send the `RegisterAppInterface` RPC to know vehicle details. If the vehicle details do not match the supported vehicle types, they would need to send an `UnregisterAppInterface` request RPC. This behavior would cause an app to be shown on an SDL enabled system for some time until the app unregisters itself from the IVI system. The users would see that apps were shown in the IVI system for a moment, but are removed within seconds. By providing vehicle type information before app registration, we could solve this issue. The app will not register on the IVI if vehicle type is not supported, allowing app partners and SDL adopters to provide an exclusive apps experience to their users depending on vehicle type information. 

### App name shown on notifications in Android

> The exclusive apps should not host Android Router Service on unsupported SDL systems. The Android system requires all apps using foreground services to show a notification. An SDL enabled Android app can potentially have two foreground services. The Android Router Service is started by the Android proxy and another foreground service will be started by an SDL enabled app. The App starting Android Router service will show two notifications to users. Only a single app will have two notifications, which is by design. Therefore, the more apps, the less likely the app will be required to display two notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exclusive apps should not host Android Router Service on unsupported SDL systems. The Android system requires all apps using foreground services to show a notification. An SDL enabled Android app can potentially have two foreground services. The Android Router Service is started by the Android app library and another foreground service will be started by an SDL enabled app. The App starting Android Router service will show two notifications to users. Only a single app will have two notifications, which is by design. Therefore, the more apps, the less likely the app will be required to display two notifications.
```

Please reference the below screenshot. The Android Router Service is hosted by the OEM app, the `Notification 2` with the app name will be shown to the user, giving the impression that the `OEM App` is still working. If the OEM App starts showing notifications when connected to another OEM's vehicle, this would confuse users. They would probably think that `OEM App` on their mobile device is working with another OEM's SDL enabled IVI system. This proposal will define ways to mitigate this issue.

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/one_noti.png" alt="App name in Android Router Service notifications" width="500"/>

This proposal tries to address the router service notification issue by defining the vehicle type filter. So, we could have an app that could specifically connect to certain vehicles. For example, an app that is designed only for Mustang vehicles.

## Proposed solution

> The proposed solution is to share vehicle type information with the SDL application before sending the register app interface RPC. This method will require the protocol layer change. The vehicle type information can be shared using `StartServiceACK` protocol message. On receiving vehicle type info, the app can determine if it's connected to supported SDL system or not. If the vehicle type is unsupported, the app will not register on SDL enabled IVI system. The below sections will describe additional information exchange in the protocol layer and changes in the Java Suite and iOS proxy libraries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proposed solution is to share vehicle type information with the SDL application before sending the `RegisterAppInterface` RPC. This method will require the protocol layer change. The vehicle type information can be shared using `StartServiceACK` protocol message. On receiving vehicle type info, the app can determine if it's connected to supported SDL system or not. If the vehicle type is unsupported, the app will not register on SDL enabled IVI system. The below sections will describe additional information exchange in the protocol layer and changes in the Java Suite and iOS app libraries. 
```

|trim|String| Vehicle trim |
|systemSoftwareVersion|String| Vehicle system software version |
|systemHardwareVersion|String| Vehicle system hardware version |

> ### Android Proxy changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Android App Library Changes
```

#### Metadata for Android Router Service

1. This resource file needs to be referenced in the manifest file of the project as `metadata` for Android Router Service.

> 2. When the proxy receives `StartServiceACK` with vehicle type details, it will check if the vehicle type information is defined in the provided supported vehicle type list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When the app library receives `StartServiceACK` with vehicle type details, it will check if the vehicle type information is defined in the provided supported vehicle type list.
```

> 3. If the vehicle filter is not defined, the proxy can skip the check. In this case, the Android Router Service is supported for all SDL enabled systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If the vehicle filter is not defined, the app library can skip the check. In this case, the Android Router Service is supported for all SDL enabled systems.
```

#### Flowcharts and sample code

1. In the current implementation, all SDL apps need to start version negotiations and register themselves on the SDL enabled system. This proposal recommends starting the RPC service by the SDL Device Listener to get vehicle type information from an SDL enabled IVI system before notifying clients about an SDL connection.

> 2. The proxy determines the appropriate router service to deploy based on vehicle type information received in the `StartServiceACK` protocol message. The proxy will check the metadata of the supported vehicle type list to determine the router service to deploy. The deployed router service will also receive vehicle type information. Once the Android Router Service is started, it will notify the client and provide vehicle type information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The app library determines the appropriate router service to deploy based on vehicle type information received in the `StartServiceACK` protocol message. The app library will check the metadata of the supported vehicle type list to determine the router service to deploy. The deployed router service will also receive vehicle type information. Once the Android Router Service is started, it will notify the client and provide vehicle type information. 
```

3. It is necessary to check support for the `StartServiceACK` protocol message and vehicle type info before notifying the client with SDL enabled callback. If clients are informed before checking the mentioned info, the exclusive apps could end up registering on an unintended SDL enabled IVI system. 

> 4. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if there are multiple SDL apps available on users device, the exclusive apps will not host the router service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if there are multiple SDL apps available on the user's device, the exclusive apps will not host the router service.
```

The below flow is modified from the [SDL 0301 proposal](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0301-SDL-device-listener.md). Starting Section A and Section C, we would like to extend the scope of SDL Listener.

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/OEM_APPS_1.png" alt="SDL Device Listener modifications" width="900"/>

In the below flow chart, SDL Listener will check vehicle type info for the connected vehicle. After detecting successful BT connection, the SDL Listener will send `Start Service for RPC`, to know vehicle type info. The SDL Listener will then end the RPC session and close BT socket connection. If vehicle info is available in `StartServiceACK`, the SDL Device Listener should save this info and use it to decide the host of the router service on subsequent connections.

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/OEM_APPS_2.png" alt="Determine Router Service" width="900"/>

> On finding the vehicle info, SDL Listener should find the appropriate app to start the router service. The vehicle filter of an App will be available in the metadata of router service in manifest file. The SDL listener will find the supported app using the meta-data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On finding the vehicle info, SDL Listener should find the appropriate app to start the router service. The vehicle filter of an app will be available in the metadata of router service in manifest file. The SDL listener will find the supported app using the metadata.
```

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/OEM_APPS_3.png" alt="Determine Router Service" width="300"/>

> The below flow chart shows the application receiving `onSDLenabled`. The vehicle details will be shared with apps using intent extra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below flow chart shows the application receiving `onSDLEnabled`. The vehicle details will be shared with apps using intent extra.
```

                            break;
                        case MultiplexBaseTransport.STATE_ERROR:
                            sdlListener.callback.onTransportError(sdlListener.connectedDevice);
                            break;
                    }
                    break;

                case com.smartdevicelink.transport.SdlRouterService.MESSAGE_READ:
                    onPacketRead((SdlPacket) msg.obj);
                    break;
            }
        }
    }
```

Changes in TransportConstants

```java
public class TransportConstants {
	public static final String CONNECTED_VEHICLE_INFO                                   = "connected_vehicle_info_for_router_service";
	public static final String START_ROUTER_SERVICE_SDL_ENABLED_CONNECTED_VEHICLE_INFO  = "connected_vehicle_info";
    .
    .
    .
}
```

Changes in SdlBroadcastReceiver 

```java
	private static SdlDeviceListener getSdlDeviceListener(Context context, BluetoothDevice bluetoothDevice){

		synchronized (DEVICE_LISTENER_LOCK){
			if (sdlDeviceListener == null){
				sdlDeviceListener = new SdlDeviceListener(context, bluetoothDevice, new SdlDeviceListener.Callback() {

>                     /*Receive vehicle type info in OnTransportConnected callback from SDLDeviceListener. Use Vehicle Type info received here to find supported App.*/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    /*Receive vehicle type info in OnTransportConnected callback from SDLDeviceListener. Use Vehicle Type info received here to find supported app.*/
```

					@Override
					public boolean onTransportConnected(Context context, BluetoothDevice bluetoothDevice, VehicleType vehicleType) {
						synchronized (DEVICE_LISTENER_LOCK){
							sdlDeviceListener = null;
							if(context != null) {

>                                 /* Use vehicle Type object to find supported App*/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                /* Use vehicle Type object to find supported app*/
```

        .
	}
```

Changes in SDL Router Service class
```java
public void onTransportConnected(final TransportRecord record){
        .
        .
        .
		Intent startService = new Intent();  
		startService.setAction(TransportConstants.START_ROUTER_SERVICE_ACTION);

        startService.putExtra(TransportConstants.START_ROUTER_SERVICE_SDL_ENABLED_CONNECTED_VEHICLE_INFO , vehicleType);
        .
        .
        AndroidTools.sendExplicitBroadcast(getApplicationContext(),startService, null);
}
```

Example usage: vehicle type check in Application Broadcast receiver.

```java
public class SdlReceiver  extends SdlBroadcastReceiver {
	@Override
	public void onSdlEnabled(Context context, Intent intent) {
		if(IsVehicleTypeSupported(intent)){
            .
            .
            .
		}
	}

	private boolean IsVehicleTypeSupported(Intent intent) {
		if(intent.hasExtra(TransportConstants.START_ROUTER_SERVICE_SDL_ENABLED_CONNECTED_VEHICLE_INFO))
		{
			VehicleType vehicleType = intent.getParcelableExtra(TransportConstants.START_ROUTER_SERVICE_SDL_ENABLED_CONNECTED_VEHICLE_INFO);
			/* Return true if vehicle is supported, else false*/
		}
		return false;
	}
    .
    .
    .
}
```

> ### iOS Proxy changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### iOS App Library Changes
```

#### Metadata for Android Router Service

1. This resource file needs to be referenced in the manifest file of the project as `metadata` for Android Router Service.
2. When the proxy receives `StartServiceACK` with vehicle type details, it will check if the vehicle type information is defined in the provided supported vehicle type list.
3. If the vehicle filter is not defined, the proxy can skip the check. In this case, the Android Router Service is supported for all SDL enabled systems.

#### Flowcharts

1. In the current implementation, all SDL apps need to start version negotiations and register themselves on the SDL enabled system. This proposal recommends starting the RPC service by the SDL Device Listener to get vehicle type information from an SDL enabled IVI system before notifying clients about an SDL connection.

> 2. The proxy determines the appropriate router service to deploy based on vehicle type information received in the `StartServiceACK` protocol message. The proxy will check the metadata of the supported vehicle type list to determine the router service to deploy. The deployed router service will also receive vehicle type information. Once the Android Router service is started, it will notify the client and provide vehicle type information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The proxy determines the appropriate router service to deploy based on vehicle type information received in the `StartServiceACK` protocol message. The proxy will check the metadata of the supported vehicle type list to determine the router service to deploy. The deployed router service will also receive vehicle type information. Once the Android Router Service is started, it will notify the client and provide vehicle type information. 
```

> 3. It is necessary to check support for `StartServiceACK` protocol message and vehicle type info before notifying the client with SDL enabled callback. If clients are informed before checking the mentioned info, the exclusive apps could end up registering on an unintended SDL enabled IVI system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. It is necessary to check support for the `StartServiceACK` protocol message and vehicle type info before notifying the client with SDL enabled callback. If clients are informed before checking the mentioned info, the exclusive apps could end up registering on an unintended SDL enabled IVI system. 
```

> 4. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info and if there are multiple SDL apps available on users device, the exclusive apps will not host router service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if there are multiple SDL apps available on users device, the exclusive apps will not host the router service.
```

> 5. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info and if all SDL apps available on users device are exclusice apps. The exclusive apps, in this case, will rely on vehicle type info received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. In such a case, if vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister apps from the SDL system and stop the Android Router Service. The exclusive app will be only allowed to stop Android Router Service hosted by them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if all SDL apps available on users device are exclusive apps. The exclusive apps, in this case, will rely on vehicle type info received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. In such a case, if vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister apps from the SDL system and stop the Android Router Service. The exclusive app will be only allowed to stop Android Router Service hosted by them.
```

> The below flow is modified from SDL 0301 proposal. Starting Section A and Section C, we would like to extend the scope of SDL Listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below flow is modified from the [SDL 0301 proposal](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0301-SDL-device-listener.md). Starting Section A and Section C, we would like to extend the scope of SDL Listener.
```

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/OEM_APPS_1.png" alt="SDL Device Listener modifications" width="900"/>

> In the below flow chart, SDL Listener will check vehicle type info for the connected vehicle. After detecting successful BT connection, the SDL listener will send Start Service for RPC, to know vehicle type Info. The SDL Listener will then end the RPC session and close BT socket connection. If Vehicle Info is available in StartServiceACK, the SDL Device Listener should save this info and use it to decide the host of the Router service on subsequent connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the below flow chart, SDL Listener will check vehicle type info for the connected vehicle. After detecting successful BT connection, the SDL Listener will send `Start Service for RPC`, to know vehicle type info. The SDL Listener will then end the RPC session and close BT socket connection. If vehicle info is available in `StartServiceACK`, the SDL Device Listener should save this info and use it to decide the host of the router service on subsequent connections.
```

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/OEM_APPS_2.png" alt="Determine Router Service" width="900"/>

> On finding the Vehicle Info, SDL Listener should find the appropriate app to start the Router service. The vehicle filter of an App will be available in the meta-data of router service in manifest file. The SDL listener will find the supported app using the meta-data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On finding the vehicle info, SDL Listener should find the appropriate app to start the router service. The vehicle filter of an App will be available in the metadata of router service in manifest file. The SDL listener will find the supported app using the meta-data
```

<img src="../assets/proposals/0293-vehicle-type-filter/OEM_APPS_3.png" alt="Determine Router Service" width="300"/>

> The below flow chart shows, the Application receiving `onSDLenabled`. The vehicle details will be shared with apps using Intent extra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below flow chart shows the application receiving `onSDLenabled`. The vehicle details will be shared with apps using intent extra.
```

2. The proxy determines the appropriate router service to deploy based on vehicle type information received in the `StartServiceACK` protocol message. The proxy will check the metadata of the supported vehicle type list to determine the router service to deploy. The deployed router service will also receive vehicle type information. Once the Android Router Service is started, it will notify the client and provide vehicle type information. 
3. It is necessary to check support for the `StartServiceACK` protocol message and vehicle type info before notifying the client with SDL enabled callback. If clients are informed before checking the mentioned info, the exclusive apps could end up registering on an unintended SDL enabled IVI system. 
4. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if there are multiple SDL apps available on users device, the exclusive apps will not host the router service.

> 5. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if all SDL apps available on users device are exclusive apps. The exclusive apps, in this case, will rely on vehicle type info received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. In such a case, if vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister apps from the SDL system and stop the Android Router Service. The exclusive app will be only allowed to stop Android Router Service hosted by them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if all SDL apps available on users device are exclusive apps, the exclusive apps, in this case, will rely on vehicle type info received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. In such a case, if vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister apps from the SDL system and stop the Android Router Service. The exclusive app will be only allowed to stop the Android Router Service hosted by them.
```

2. The proxy determines the appropriate router service to deploy based on vehicle type information received in the `StartServiceACK` protocol message. The proxy will check the metadata of the supported vehicle type list to determine the router service to deploy. The deployed router service will also receive vehicle type information. Once the Android Router Service is started, it will notify the client and provide vehicle type information. 
3. It is necessary to check support for the `StartServiceACK` protocol message and vehicle type info before notifying the client with SDL enabled callback. If clients are informed before checking the mentioned info, the exclusive apps could end up registering on an unintended SDL enabled IVI system. 
4. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if there are multiple SDL apps available on users device, the exclusive apps will not host the router service.

> 5. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if all SDL apps available on users device are exclusive apps, the exclusive apps, in this case, will rely on vehicle type info received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. In such a case, if vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister apps from the SDL system and stop the Android Router Service. The exclusive app will be only allowed to stop the Android Router Service hosted by them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If the `StartServiceACK` message does not have vehicle type info or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info and if all SDL apps available on the user's device are exclusive apps, the exclusive apps, in this case, will rely on vehicle type info received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. In such a case, if vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister apps from the SDL system and stop the Android Router Service. The exclusive app will be only allowed to stop the Android Router Service that it hosts.
```

}
```

> Example usage: vehicle type check in Application Broadcast receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example usage: vehicle type check in Application Broadcast Receiver.
```

```
#### Determining Vehicle Type Info

1. The proxy will receive vehicle type info in `StartServiceAck` protocol message. 
2. On receiving vehicle type information, proxy will check `SDLSupportedVehicleTypes` keys to check supported vehicle types.
3. If the vehicle type is supported, the proxy should also notify the app about the connected vehicle type so that the app can configure SDL as required. 

> 4. If the proxy determines that connected vehicle type is not supported, the proxy will end the RPC session. The application will not register on SDL enabled IVI system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the proxy determines that connected vehicle type is not supported, the proxy will end the RPC session. The application will not register on the SDL enabled IVI system.
```

> 5. If the vehicle type information is not available in `StartServiceAck` protocol message, the SDL proxy will continue with the app registration and it will rely on vehicle type information received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. If vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister from the SDL enabled system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If the vehicle type information is not available in `StartServiceAck` protocol message or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info, the SDL proxy will continue with the app registration and it will rely on vehicle type information received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. If vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister from the SDL enabled system.
```

## Potential downsides

> The SDL device Listener after transport connection needs to start the RPC service. If the SDL device Listener does not start RPC service and relies on the client for vehicle type details, the connected client would start another foreground service. This would force the connected app to show two notifications to users while determining vehicle type information and would need to terminate services if the app does not support the SDL enabled IVI system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDL Device Listener after transport connection needs to start the RPC service. If the SDL Device Listener does not start the RPC service and relies on the client for vehicle type details, the connected client would start another foreground service. This would force the connected app to show two notifications to users while determining vehicle type information and would need to terminate services if the app does not support the SDL enabled IVI system. 
```

## Impact on existing code

Above mentioned changes need to be implemented in SDL Core, the Java Suite proxy, and the iOS proxy libraries.

## Alternatives considered

### Using RPC instead of Protocol message to share vehicle type info
1. As per the current implementation, the RAI is the first RPC sent to an SDL enabled IVI system and the vehicle type information is available to the app in its response. 

> 2. If `GetVehicleType` is an RPC to receive the vehicle type info, it would be the first RPC to be used. Since, the app should be able to use the `GetVehicleType` RPC to know vehicle type info before the app registration on IVI.

Reviewer: I'm having trouble following this line. Can you please re-word? If you could let me know which requested revision required this change, that may also be helpful in clarifying this information.

Author: I rephrased it in commit https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/pull/1067/commits/47374a485dde2f5e82fad4c5bdab8b59669c65af

Reviewer: Thanks! Can you please also advise which requested revision (from this comment: https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/971#issuecomment-662509171) required this change?

Author: In the earlier proposal, we proposed "GetVehicleType" as a protocol message control frame. Hence, the alternatives considered was a comparison between the protocol message and RPC. In this revision as per Item 2, we removed a protocol message, that's why added some clarification about the purpose of RPC.

```
#### Determining Vehicle Type Info

> 1. The proxy will receive vehicle type info in `StartServiceAck` protocol message. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The app library will receive vehicle type info in `StartServiceAck` protocol message. 
```

> 2. On receiving vehicle type information, proxy will check `SDLSupportedVehicleTypes` keys to check supported vehicle types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On receiving vehicle type information, the app library will check `SDLSupportedVehicleTypes` keys to check supported vehicle types.
```

> 3. If the vehicle type is supported, the proxy should also notify the app about the connected vehicle type so that the app can configure SDL as required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If the vehicle type is supported, the app library should also notify the app about the connected vehicle type so that the app can configure SDL as required. 
```

> 4. If the proxy determines that connected vehicle type is not supported, the proxy will end the RPC session. The application will not register on the SDL enabled IVI system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the app library determines that connected vehicle type is not supported, the app library will end the RPC session. The application will not register on the SDL enabled IVI system.
```

> 5. If the vehicle type information is not available in `StartServiceAck` protocol message or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info, the SDL proxy will continue with the app registration and it will rely on vehicle type information received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. If vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister from the SDL enabled system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If the vehicle type information is not available in `StartServiceAck` protocol message or the protocol version is less than that supporting the vehicle type info, the SDL app library will continue with the app registration and it will rely on vehicle type information received in the `RegisterAppInterface` response. If vehicle type is not supported, the exclusive apps will be allowed to unregister from the SDL enabled system.
```

## Potential downsides

The SDL Device Listener after transport connection needs to start the RPC service. If the SDL Device Listener does not start the RPC service and relies on the client for vehicle type details, the connected client would start another foreground service. This would force the connected app to show two notifications to users while determining vehicle type information and would need to terminate services if the app does not support the SDL enabled IVI system. 

## Impact on existing code

> Above mentioned changes need to be implemented in SDL Core, the Java Suite proxy, and the iOS proxy libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Above mentioned changes need to be implemented in SDL Core, the Java Suite app library, and the iOS app library.
```

## Alternatives considered

### Using RPC instead of Protocol message to share vehicle type info
1. As per the current implementation, the RAI is the first RPC sent to an SDL enabled IVI system, and the vehicle type information is available to the app in its response. 

> 2. To know vehicle type details before the Register App interface, we have to introduce new RPC `GetVehicleType` to receive the vehicle type info. The App will have to send `GetVehicleType` before RAI. Since the app needs to know vehicle type info before the app registration on IVI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To know vehicle type details before the Register App Interface, we have to introduce new RPC `GetVehicleType` to receive the vehicle type info. The App will have to send `GetVehicleType` before RAI. Since the app needs to know vehicle type info before the app registration on IVI.
```

## Alternatives considered

### Using RPC instead of Protocol message to share vehicle type info
1. As per the current implementation, the RAI is the first RPC sent to an SDL enabled IVI system, and the vehicle type information is available to the app in its response. 

> 2. To know vehicle type details before the Register App interface, we have to introduce new RPC `GetVehicleType` to receive the vehicle type info. The App will have to send `GetVehicleType` before RAI. Since the app needs to know vehicle type info before the app registration on IVI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To know vehicle type details before the RAI, we have to introduce new RPC `GetVehicleType` to receive the vehicle type info. The app will have to send `GetVehicleType` before RAI since the app needs to know vehicle type info before the app registration on IVI.
```

> 3. Since the RPC message version is sent to the app in the `RAI response`, the app would not know if the `GetVehicleType` RPC is supported or not.

Reviewer: Please advise which requested revision (from this comment: https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/971#issuecomment-662509171) required this change.

Author: @theresalech  Please refer [this ](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/pull/1067#discussion_r483463926) comment.
